README.md, before:


# 🌐 Reference Implementations for Secure & Compliant AI Workflows with **🔐 AIShield Guardian** 

![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/State-Beta-yellow) 
![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Notice-Work_in_Progress-blue)



Learn more about AIShield Guardian [here](https://www.boschaishield.com/aishield-guardian/)

This repository provides all integrations leveraging AIShield Guardian for secure, policy-compliant AI workflows for Agentic AI systems.

📜 To know more about 🤖  **Agentic AI system** and 🛡️**AI Agentic Security** read this [primer](LearnAgenticAISecurity/agentic_ai_security.md).

## ⚙️ Common Components

- **Guardian API** : The core [GuardianAPIClient](guardian_api.py) class enables input/output validation for compliance in workflows. In case of socket based connectivity use [GuardianAPIClient](guardian_api_soket.py). For testing connectivity leverage the utility of [GuardianConnectivityTest](utils/guardian_connectivity_test.py).
    - **📝 NOTE:** For getting your `GUARDIAN_API_ENDPOINT` and `GUARDIAN_API_KEY`, please [Contact Us.](mailto:contact.aishield@bosch.com?subject=Request%20for%20Guardian%20API%20key&body=Hello,%0D%0A%0D%0AI%20want%20to%20use%20Guardian%20API%20for%20my%20agentic%20workflow.%20Could%20you%20please%20provide%20me%20an%20API%20key.%0D%0A%0D%0AName:%0D%0AGithub%20profile%20or%20LinkedIn%20profile:%0D%0AIntended%20use:%0D%0AAgentic%20AI%20Framework:%0D%0A)

## 🤖 Agentic AI Implementations

- **CrewAI** : [GuardedCrew](AgentAI/Crewai_Agent_Example) implementation with example of project planning crew
- **Phidata** : [GuardedAgentWorkflow](AgentAI/PhiData_Agent_Examples) implementation with the financial agent workflow
- **Microsoft AutoGen** : [MonitorRoundRobinGroupChat](AgentAI/Microsoft_Autogen_Example) implementation with travel planning agents
- **OpenAI Agents SDK** : [input_guardrail/output_guardrail](AgentAI/OpenAI_Agent_SDK_Example) implementation with customer support agent for bank
- **PydenticAI** : To BE ADDED

## 🖥️↔️💻  MCP Server Implementation

- **MCP** : [MCPServer](MCP/mcp_server_guardian.py) implementation with example MCP server and client

## 🦜️🔗 Langchain Implementation

- **Ollama** : [GuardedOllamaChain](Langchain/Ollama_Simplechain_guardian) implementation with example of chatbot chain

## 📅 **[Schedule a call to Learn More!](https://share-eu1.hsforms.com/1er3vym0FRA-r_B2ZnG5OWQffb9n?__hstc=138249519.4d817d58bf2f28287881f1a4495c2daa.1682320777326.1688113936277.1688634393681.37&__hssc=138249519.1.1688634393681&__hsfp=524412920)**

---

## ⚖️ License

This project is licensed under MIT License.

Commit message:

First checkin Add RAG implementation for secure vector databases
Introduces Safe, Secure and Privacy Preserving RAG (SSPP RAG) functionality to enhance vector database security. New section in README documents implementation details and example usage.

README.md, after:


# 🌐 Reference Implementations for Secure & Compliant AI Workflows with **🔐 AIShield Guardian** 

![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/State-Beta-yellow) 
![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Notice-Work_in_Progress-blue)



Learn more about AIShield Guardian [here](https://www.boschaishield.com/aishield-guardian/)

This repository provides all integrations leveraging AIShield Guardian for secure, policy-compliant AI workflows for Agentic AI systems.

📜 To know more about 🤖  **Agentic AI system** and 🛡️**AI Agentic Security** read this [primer](LearnAgenticAISecurity/agentic_ai_security.md).

## ⚙️ Common Components

- **Guardian API** : The core [GuardianAPIClient](guardian_api.py) class enables input/output validation for compliance in workflows. In case of socket based connectivity use [GuardianAPIClient](guardian_api_soket.py). For testing connectivity leverage the utility of [GuardianConnectivityTest](utils/guardian_connectivity_test.py).
    - **📝 NOTE:** For getting your `GUARDIAN_API_ENDPOINT` and `GUARDIAN_API_KEY`, please [Contact Us.](mailto:contact.aishield@bosch.com?subject=Request%20for%20Guardian%20API%20key&body=Hello,%0D%0A%0D%0AI%20want%20to%20use%20Guardian%20API%20for%20my%20agentic%20workflow.%20Could%20you%20please%20provide%20me%20an%20API%20key.%0D%0A%0D%0AName:%0D%0AGithub%20profile%20or%20LinkedIn%20profile:%0D%0AIntended%20use:%0D%0AAgentic%20AI%20Framework:%0D%0A)

## 🤖 Agentic AI Implementations

- **CrewAI** : [GuardedCrew](AgentAI/Crewai_Agent_Example) implementation with example of project planning crew
- **Phidata** : [GuardedAgentWorkflow](AgentAI/PhiData_Agent_Examples) implementation with the financial agent workflow
- **Microsoft AutoGen** : [MonitorRoundRobinGroupChat](AgentAI/Microsoft_Autogen_Example) implementation with travel planning agents
- **OpenAI Agents SDK** : [input_guardrail/output_guardrail](AgentAI/OpenAI_Agent_SDK_Example) implementation with customer support agent for bank
- **PydenticAI** : To BE ADDED

## 🖥️↔️💻  MCP Server Implementation

- **MCP** : [MCPServer](MCP/mcp_server_guardian.py) implementation with example MCP server and client


## 🗄️  Safe, Secure and Privacy Preserving RAG

- **SSPP RAG** : [RAG](Safe_Secure_Private_RAG/rag_guardian.py) implementation with example of building safe, secure and privacy preserving RAG for vector database security

## 🦜️🔗 Langchain Implementation

- **Ollama** : [GuardedOllamaChain](Langchain/Ollama_Simplechain_guardian) implementation with example of chatbot chain

## 📅 **[Schedule a call to Learn More!](https://share-eu1.hsforms.com/1er3vym0FRA-r_B2ZnG5OWQffb9n?__hstc=138249519.4d817d58bf2f28287881f1a4495c2daa.1682320777326.1688113936277.1688634393681.37&__hssc=138249519.1.1688634393681&__hsfp=524412920)**

---

## ⚖️ License

This project is licensed under MIT License.
