MCP/README.md, before:

# 🚀 AIShield Guardian 🛡️ x FastMCP Guardrail Server ⚙️  

**Secure, Policy‑Compliant Workflows via MCP Guardrails**

Protect your LLM applications with real‑time input and output guardrails enforced by **AIShield Guardian** and a **MCP** server. Every prompt and response is validated against your security policies before it’s processed or delivered.

---

## 📜 Overview

This reference implementation shows how to build a **Guardrail MCP Server** using **FastMCP** that:

1. **Intercepts user inputs**, validates them via the AIShield Guardian API, and rejects unsafe prompts.
2. **Checks LLM outputs** against the same API, retrying or sanitizing if policy violations occur.
3. Provides a **sample client** to demonstrate end‑to‑end testing of the guardrail workflows.

---

## 🔑 Key Takeaways

1. **Policy Enforcement**  
   Non‑compliant inputs or outputs are blocked automatically, ensuring only safe content flows through.

2. **Automated Monitoring**  
   Built‑in logging and retries reduce manual oversight and surface anomalies in real time.

3. **Enhanced Security**  
   Prevent malicious, sensitive, or biased content from being processed or returned by your LLM.

---

## ⚙️ Technical Highlights

- **MCP Server Tools**  
  - `validate_input`: Guards incoming prompts.  
  - `validate_output`: Guards generated responses.

- **Guardian API Integration Classes**  
  - `GuardianAPIClient`: Low‑level HTTP wrapper with retries.  
  - `CheckResult`: Simple result model.  
  - `GuardianAPIConfig`: High‑level methods for input/output checks.

- **Sample LLM Client**  
  - Lightweight Python script simulating an LLM call and showing guardrail enforcement.

---

## Table of Contents

- [📜 Overview](#-overview)  
  - [🔑 Key Takeaways](#-key-takeaways)  
  - [⚙️ Technical Highlights](#️-technical-highlights)  
- [🏁 Getting Started](#-getting-started)  
  - [📋 Prerequisites](#-prerequisites)  
  - [🛠️ Installation & Setup](#️-installation--setup)  
  - [▶️ Run the Example](#️-run-the-example)  
- [🔧 Technical Details](#-technical-details)  
  - [🔌 Guardian API Integration](#-guardian-api-integration)  
    - [GuardianAPIClient 🛡️](#guardianapiclient-️)  
    - [✔️ CheckResult](#️-checkresult)  
    - [🔐 GuardianAPIConfig](#-guardianapiconfig)  
  - [🛡️ MCP Server Implementation](#️-mcp-server-implementation)  
    - [Input Guardrail Tool](#️-mcp-server-implementation)
    - [Output Guardrail Tool](#️-mcp-server-implementation)  
  - [🤖 Sample LLM Client Integration](#-sample-llm-client-integration)  
- [⚖️ License](#️-license)  

---

## 🏁 Getting Started

### 📋 Prerequisites

- **Python 3.7+**  
- **FastMCP** (e.g., `pip install fastmcp`)  
- **Requests** (`pip install requests`)  
- **Pydantic** (`pip install pydantic`)  
- **Tenacity** (`pip install tenacity`)  
- **Termcolor** (`pip install termcolor`)  

### 🛠️ Installation & Setup

1. **Clone the repository**  
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-org/guardrail-mcp-server.git
   cd guardrail-mcp-server
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**  
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. **Configure environment variables**  
   ```bash
   export GUARDIAN_API_ENDPOINT="https://api.aishieldguardian.com"
   export GUARDIAN_API_KEY="your_guardian_api_key"
   ```

---

### ▶️ Run the Example

1. **Start the Guardrail MCP server**  
   ```bash
   python mcp_server.py
   ```

2. **Run the sample LLM test client**  
   ```bash
   python sample_llm_test.py
   ```

Interactively enter safe or unsafe prompts to see input/output validations in action.

---

## 🔧 Technical Details

### 🔌 Guardian API Integration

#### GuardianAPIClient 🛡️

Manages HTTP communication with AIShield Guardian:

- Sets base URL and headers (includes API key).  
- Provides `_get`/`_post` with retries via **Tenacity**.  
- Implements `chat_app1(prompt)` to send text for policy checks.

#### ✔️ CheckResult

Captures validation outcomes:

- **approved** (`bool`): Pass/fail.  
- **message** (`str`): Details on any policy violation.

#### 🔐 GuardianAPIConfig

High‑level wrapper that:

- Initializes the client and verifies connectivity.  
- Implements:
  ```python
  def check_input(self, prompt: str) -> CheckResult
  def check_output(self, output: str) -> CheckResult
  ```
- Performs basic sanity checks before API calls.

---

### 🛡️ MCP Server Implementation

```python
from fastmcp import McpServer, ToolResponse
from pydantic import BaseModel
from guardian_api import GuardianAPIConfig

# Load endpoint and key from environment
import os
endpoint = os.getenv("GUARDIAN_API_ENDPOINT")
key      = os.getenv("GUARDIAN_API_KEY")

guardian = GuardianAPIConfig(api_key=key, base_url=endpoint)
server   = McpServer(name="GuardrailServer", version="1.0.0")

class InputSchema(BaseModel):
    input_text: str

class OutputSchema(BaseModel):
    output_text: str

@server.tool(name="validate_input", description="Validate user input.", schema=InputSchema)
def validate_input(input_text: str) -> ToolResponse:
    result = guardian.check_input(input_text)
    if not result.approved:
        return ToolResponse(
            content=[{"type":"text","text":f"Input rejected: {result.message}"}],
            success=False,
        )
    return ToolResponse(
        content=[{"type":"text","text":"Input is valid."}],
        success=True,
    )

@server.tool(name="validate_output", description="Validate LLM output.", schema=OutputSchema)
def validate_output(output_text: str) -> ToolResponse:
    result = guardian.check_output(output_text)
    if not result.approved:
        return ToolResponse(
            content=[{"type":"text","text":f"Output rejected: {result.message}"}],
            success=False,
        )
    return ToolResponse(
        content=[{"type":"text","text":"Output is valid."}],
        success=True,
    )

if __name__ == "__main__":
    server.run()
```

---

### 🤖 Sample LLM Client Integration

```python
import requests

MCP_URL = "http://localhost:8000"

def test_input_validation(txt):
    return requests.post(f"{MCP_URL}/validate_input", json={"input_text": txt}).json()

def test_output_validation(txt):
    return requests.post(f"{MCP_URL}/validate_output", json={"output_text": txt}).json()

def dummy_llm(prompt):
    return f"LLM response based on: {prompt}"

def run_test():
    user_prompt = input("Enter prompt: ")
    resp_in = test_input_validation(user_prompt)
    if not resp_in.get("success"):
        print("Rejected:", resp_in["content"][0]["text"])
        return

    llm_out = dummy_llm(user_prompt)
    resp_out = test_output_validation(llm_out)
    if not resp_out.get("success"):
        print("Rejected:", resp_out["content"][0]["text"])
    else:
        print("Final Output:", llm_out)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    run_test()
```

---

## ⚖️ License

This project is licensed under the **MIT License**. Feel free to adapt and extend as needed!

Commit message:

Updates deployment and configuration instructions
Updates repository links and file paths to reflect actual deployment structure
Adds call scheduling option for technical integration support
Replaces placeholder API endpoint with variable naming

Makes setup instructions more accurate and user-friendly for first-time users

MCP/README.md, after:

# 🚀 AIShield Guardian 🛡️ x FastMCP Guardrail Server ⚙️  

**Secure, Policy‑Compliant Workflows via MCP Guardrails**

Protect your LLM applications with real‑time input and output guardrails enforced by **AIShield Guardian** and a **MCP** server. Every prompt and response is validated against your security policies before it’s processed or delivered.

---

## 📜 Overview

This reference implementation shows how to build a **Guardrail MCP Server** using **FastMCP** that:

1. **Intercepts user inputs**, validates them via the AIShield Guardian API, and rejects unsafe prompts.
2. **Checks LLM outputs** against the same API, retrying or sanitizing if policy violations occur.
3. Provides a **sample client** to demonstrate end‑to‑end testing of the guardrail workflows.

---

## 🔑 Key Takeaways

1. **Policy Enforcement**  
   Non‑compliant inputs or outputs are blocked automatically, ensuring only safe content flows through.

2. **Automated Monitoring**  
   Built‑in logging and retries reduce manual oversight and surface anomalies in real time.

3. **Enhanced Security**  
   Prevent malicious, sensitive, or biased content from being processed or returned by your LLM.

If you want to know more on technical integration and how to run in your environment, 

## 📅 **[Schedule a Call Here!](https://share-eu1.hsforms.com/1er3vym0FRA-r_B2ZnG5OWQffb9n?__hstc=138249519.4d817d58bf2f28287881f1a4495c2daa.1682320777326.1688113936277.1688634393681.37&__hssc=138249519.1.1688634393681&__hsfp=524412920)**

---

## ⚙️ Technical Highlights

- **MCP Server Tools**  
  - `validate_input`: Guards incoming prompts.  
  - `validate_output`: Guards generated responses.

- **Guardian API Integration Classes**  
  - `GuardianAPIClient`: Low‑level HTTP wrapper with retries.  
  - `CheckResult`: Simple result model.  
  - `GuardianAPIConfig`: High‑level methods for input/output checks.

- **Sample LLM Client**  
  - Lightweight Python script simulating an LLM call and showing guardrail enforcement.

---

## Table of Contents

- [📜 Overview](#-overview)  
  - [🔑 Key Takeaways](#-key-takeaways)  
  - [⚙️ Technical Highlights](#️-technical-highlights)  
- [🏁 Getting Started](#-getting-started)  
  - [📋 Prerequisites](#-prerequisites)  
  - [🛠️ Installation & Setup](#️-installation--setup)  
  - [▶️ Run the Example](#️-run-the-example)  
- [🔧 Technical Details](#-technical-details)  
  - [🔌 Guardian API Integration](#-guardian-api-integration)  
    - [GuardianAPIClient 🛡️](#guardianapiclient-️)  
    - [✔️ CheckResult](#️-checkresult)  
    - [🔐 GuardianAPIConfig](#-guardianapiconfig)  
  - [🛡️ MCP Server Implementation](#️-mcp-server-implementation)  
    - [Input Guardrail Tool](#️-mcp-server-implementation)
    - [Output Guardrail Tool](#️-mcp-server-implementation)  
  - [🤖 Sample LLM Client Integration](#-sample-llm-client-integration)  
- [⚖️ License](#️-license)  

---

## 🏁 Getting Started

### 📋 Prerequisites

- **Python 3.7+**  
- **FastMCP** (e.g., `pip install fastmcp`)  
- **Requests** (`pip install requests`)  
- **Pydantic** (`pip install pydantic`)  
- **Tenacity** (`pip install tenacity`)  
- **Termcolor** (`pip install termcolor`)  

### 🛠️ Installation & Setup

1. **Clone the repository**  
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/bosch-aisecurity-aishield/Reference-Implementations-Guardian.git
   cd mcp
   ```



2. **Configure environment variables**  
   ```bash
   export GUARDIAN_API_ENDPOINT="https://your_guardian_api_endpoint"
   export GUARDIAN_API_KEY="your_guardian_api_key"
   ```
**📝 NOTE:** For getting your `GUARDIAN_API_ENDPOINT` and `GUARDIAN_API_KEY`, please [Contact Us.](mailto:contact.aishield@bosch.com?subject=Request%20for%20Guardian%20API%20key&body=Hello,%0D%0A%0D%0AI%20want%20to%20use%20Guardian%20API%20for%20my%20agentic%20workflow.%20Could%20you%20please%20provide%20me%20an%20API%20key.%0D%0A%0D%0AName:%0D%0AGithub%20profile%20or%20LinkedIn%20profile:%0D%0AIntended%20use:%0D%0AAgentic%20AI%20Framework:%0D%0A)
---

### ▶️ Run the Example

1. **Start the Guardrail MCP server**  
   ```bash
   python mcp_server_guardian.py
   ```

2. **Run the sample LLM test client**  
   ```bash
   python mcp_client_test.py
   ```

Interactively enter safe or unsafe prompts to see input/output validations in action.

---

## 🔧 Technical Details

### 🔌 Guardian API Integration

#### GuardianAPIClient 🛡️

Manages HTTP communication with AIShield Guardian:

- Sets base URL and headers (includes API key).  
- Provides `_get`/`_post` with retries via **Tenacity**.  
- Implements `chat_app1(prompt)` to send text for policy checks.

#### ✔️ CheckResult

Captures validation outcomes:

- **approved** (`bool`): Pass/fail.  
- **message** (`str`): Details on any policy violation.

#### 🔐 GuardianAPIConfig

High‑level wrapper that:

- Initializes the client and verifies connectivity.  
- Implements:
  ```python
  def check_input(self, prompt: str) -> CheckResult
  def check_output(self, output: str) -> CheckResult
  ```
- Performs basic sanity checks before API calls.

---

### 🛡️ MCP Server Implementation

```python
from fastmcp import McpServer, ToolResponse
from pydantic import BaseModel
from guardian_api import GuardianAPIConfig

# Load endpoint and key from environment
import os
endpoint = os.getenv("GUARDIAN_API_ENDPOINT")
key      = os.getenv("GUARDIAN_API_KEY")

guardian = GuardianAPIConfig(api_key=key, base_url=endpoint)
server   = McpServer(name="GuardrailServer", version="1.0.0")

class InputSchema(BaseModel):
    input_text: str

class OutputSchema(BaseModel):
    output_text: str

@server.tool(name="validate_input", description="Validate user input.", schema=InputSchema)
def validate_input(input_text: str) -> ToolResponse:
    result = guardian.check_input(input_text)
    if not result.approved:
        return ToolResponse(
            content=[{"type":"text","text":f"Input rejected: {result.message}"}],
            success=False,
        )
    return ToolResponse(
        content=[{"type":"text","text":"Input is valid."}],
        success=True,
    )

@server.tool(name="validate_output", description="Validate LLM output.", schema=OutputSchema)
def validate_output(output_text: str) -> ToolResponse:
    result = guardian.check_output(output_text)
    if not result.approved:
        return ToolResponse(
            content=[{"type":"text","text":f"Output rejected: {result.message}"}],
            success=False,
        )
    return ToolResponse(
        content=[{"type":"text","text":"Output is valid."}],
        success=True,
    )

if __name__ == "__main__":
    server.run()
```

---

### 🤖 Sample LLM Client Integration

```python
import requests

MCP_URL = "http://localhost:8000"

def test_input_validation(txt):
    return requests.post(f"{MCP_URL}/validate_input", json={"input_text": txt}).json()

def test_output_validation(txt):
    return requests.post(f"{MCP_URL}/validate_output", json={"output_text": txt}).json()

def dummy_llm(prompt):
    return f"LLM response based on: {prompt}"

def run_test():
    user_prompt = input("Enter prompt: ")
    resp_in = test_input_validation(user_prompt)
    if not resp_in.get("success"):
        print("Rejected:", resp_in["content"][0]["text"])
        return

    llm_out = dummy_llm(user_prompt)
    resp_out = test_output_validation(llm_out)
    if not resp_out.get("success"):
        print("Rejected:", resp_out["content"][0]["text"])
    else:
        print("Final Output:", llm_out)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    run_test()
```
If you want to know more on technical integration and how to run in your environment, 

## 📅 **[Schedule a Call Here!](https://share-eu1.hsforms.com/1er3vym0FRA-r_B2ZnG5OWQffb9n?__hstc=138249519.4d817d58bf2f28287881f1a4495c2daa.1682320777326.1688113936277.1688634393681.37&__hssc=138249519.1.1688634393681&__hsfp=524412920)**

---

## ⚖️ License

This project is licensed under the **MIT License**. Feel free to adapt and extend as needed!
